# CIS106-Nardeen-Hameed

## Assignment 1

I am taking this course for two reasons. First, I've loved computer programming since my childhood. It was my dream to be a computer science engineer, and I see it is time to take this course. Also, I want to get more programming language skills because there are many opportunities for a successful career. Second, I don't like to communicate with people and always like to be home and work from home; however, there are many careers for programming that I can work from home. In addition, the IT career is very popular now. It will be more demand for IT in the future because everything will be computerized I.

## Assignment 2
I choose the Python programming language to learn for many reasons. First of all, Python is easier to learn the basics and understand the Python code. Second, Python is one of the most requested programming languages in the programming field. Third, there are many job opportunities in the field of Python language. Finally, Python contains a simple and uncomplicated set of sentences and simple words written in English.
 I intend to use Python for audio application development between hearing aid, cochlear implant devices, and applications. Also, I intend to work from home. There are many work-from-home opportunities that are available in Python. I tested Wikiversity web for all IDEs found. I would like to start with GDB and Thonny in the beginning L.
 
## Assignment 3
During this session, I learned that all programs need planning and patience to solve problems. Programming teaches you to see problems in the light of solutions. For every problem you may encounter, you will brainstorm how to solve it. The results that come from brainstorming and problem solving will give you a positive outlook and empower you to work on the problem no matter how difficult it may be. Programming is a highly sought-after job for people who want to balance their work and family life. Some people feel that going to work is a waste of time; however, programming will allow them to apply for many jobs available around the world without moving to the workplace or traveling abroad. Therefore, programming is fundamental today and maybe even more influential in the future. This field will continue to grow as programmers around the world work to learn new ways to communicate with machines and computers I.

## Assignment 4
This session was more challenging than the previous one. And I learned how to use the flowchart to solve simple problems. Yes, I found it difficult to solve errors in my dependency code. However, challenge yourself and be patient; you will find a solution. I intend to apply this science in my world to create applications and programs to facilitate life. I want to develop projects and applications in the virtual world, which is gaming technology and social networking. As for the application of this learning in work, many applications exist in our lives that need to be corrected and developed. For example, the development of voice translation software is needed by the deaf. Programming is the most influential language in various industries, transforming the virtual world in industry, commerce, education, and social communication. Therefore, programming remains an area of greatest need K.

## Assignment 5
In this session, I learned to enter function parameters into a flowchart, which made me think about introducing new parameters into old applications that can be transformed into newer ones. For example, there is a particular game, like the Mario game; through function parameters, we can add things to this game to develop and make it better than it was.
There is another reason why I entered the programming world. I do not like to go to the doctor every three months to program my hearing aids. Maybe after I learn how to program, I can program my hearing aid by myself. Also, I would like to create new applications that work for hearing aid or cochlear implant device to make life easier E.

## Assignment 6
In this session, I learned how to write good code. Writing specific code requires a lot of time and mastery until the result comes out as you want. Programming became another science subject, requiring diligence and continued learning in school. I intend to learn to program very well, and I would like to apply this learning to developing the web. Also, I want to create programs to help people who have hearing loss. Programming is the most influential language in various industries, transforming the virtual world in industry, commerce, education, and social communication. Therefore, programming remains an area of greatest need U.

## Assignment 7
This session was the most difficult because I did not know how to implement the conditions. After research and reading, I learned how to add conditions to a relative flow. I would like to apply this learning to create and develop many programs in my own world. For example, I would like to create a Vibration alarm program to help deaf mothers with newborn babies. I was thinking about my future if I had a child; how can I hear the baby crying while I sleep. So I want to do rocking programs to know if a baby cries. I do not know if there is the same program as this. 
When I was a child, I liked foreign films and series, especially investigation series. When I was a kid, my favorite series was NCIS, starring Mark Harmon. I always dreamed of becoming a criminal investigator one day. And if I will become a successful programmer in one day, I hope there will be an opportunity to work for the FBI!. So, this is how I want to apply this learning in career opportunities U.

## Assignment 8
 In this assignment, I learned how to use loops in programming. Loops are statements that are used to execute specific pieces of code multiple times. Instead of repeating writing the code 1000 times, for example, you will write it once and the iterative loops will do the rest of the task for you after you specify some variables such as the number of iterations or when to start and when to stop. I intend to apply this learning to implement software for business organizations. There are a lot of businesses that contain a lot of repetitive logic. Recursive logic can be reduced by using iterative loops A.
 
 ## Assignment 9
 In this session, I learned how to use the While Loop. It is an <iterative phrase similar to the for repetition, used to repeat the steps of the software contained in its parentheses for a number of times, after examining the verification condition. The while loop allows the action of a part of the program to be repeated until a condition changes. For example, while (x<50 ),  x=x*2. Here this loop will continue to double the variable x until the value of x is greater than 50, then it stops. In loops, Iteration always uses variables; otherwise, the loop will be infinite, and the variable we will use is the counter of the loop, and we also have to give the variable a starting value. I intend to apply this learning to implement software for business organizations.RE

## Assignment 10
In this session I learned how to use nested loops. This nested loop can contain a four-loop or a whale-loop. You learned that in the nested loop the number of iterations is equal to the number of iterations in the outer loop. These loops are used with multidimensional data structures. I intend to apply this learning in how to create or make a structure or an engineering drawing by drawing rings. So my task in this lesson will be to devise algorithms that will draw these shapes with the lowest possible code, regardless of the size of the geometric shapes.THE

## Assignment 11
An array is a set of data that is stored in a single variable and in a contiguous space, so it is necessary to know how to access any of the elements of this array. It must be known that each element of the array contains two pieces of information, the first information is the address or location of this element in the array, and this address is known as the index, and the second information is the value of the element itself. I intend to apply this learning to educational objectives to create a structure of data in which many objects can be stored. Moreover, every element carries a value. Memory space is reserved to carry the value and place of each item in a serial order.BE

## Assignment 12
This season, you learned how to use dynamic programming, "a data structure with variable random access that allows items to be added or removed" according to Programming Fundamentals by DAVE BRAUNSCHWEIG. Dynamic programming is frequently used for string problems, such as the string editing problem. Dynamic programming is a widely used concept, often used for optimization, and its working principle is to simplify a complex problem by dividing it into sub-recursive problems that are simpler than the original problem. Also, It only solves each sub-problem once and saves in the table, there is no need to recalculate every time a sub-problem is solved. I intend to apply this using dynamic programming to solve optimization problems such as array multiplication problems.

## Assignment 13
In this season I learned how to use String methods. Python has several functions built into it to handle strings. These functions allow us to easily modify and perform operations on strings. You can think of functions as "actions" that we can perform on elements in the code. Built-in functions are functions that are defined within the Python language and are directly ready for use. For example, the str.upper() and str.lower() functions will return the string after converting the case of all its original characters to uppercase or lowercase (respectively and in order). Since we are unable to modify the text string after creating it, a new one will be returned. Any non-Latin characters in the original string will not be modified and will remain unchanged. There are many other functions under the link https://www.w3schools.com/python/python_strings_methods.asp.
I intend to apply this learning to correct and disassemble texts, especially in arabic texts.
